All right guys so in this video we're going to look at links and images and what I've done here is I've
put the bra I've made the browser smaller so that I could fit it on the same screen as the as the editors
that we can see what's going on at the same time because we have auto reload with live server and I
won't do this for every video just the ones that where we don't need a lot of real estate in the browser
window here.
So let's go ahead and create a new file.
I'm going to call this 0 5 underscore links underscore images dot HD CML.
All right.
And we're going to close this up to give us some more room and we're gonna generate a boilerplate and
might say boilerplate it just means you know our are our starter template whatever our structure.
So the title I'm gonna say links and images and let's go ahead and let's first start with an external
link.
So if you want to link to another Web site you can do that.
So I'm going to put a paragraph in between all these links actually know what I won't do that because
I want to show you something.
So a link is is represented within a tag.
So I'm going to say a tab or a enter and notice that with V.S. code it gives us this H RF attribute
right away.
And that's because every link needs an H ref attribute because that's the location that you're linking
to.
So in this case let's link to H TTP Google dot com and inside here is what we want to put whatever we
want to click to link like some text or an image or whatever that's what we want to put in here so let's
let's just say click for Google and we'll save this.
We're just going to add a comment here.
We'll say external link and let's go ahead and save and run with live server OK.
So we have this link here.
This is click for Google.
By default it's going to be colored differently it's going to have an underlying and if I click it brings
us to Google now knows it opens in the same tab.
And when you link to an external site like this usually you want to open it in a new tab because you
don't want to do you don't want people to drift away from your Web site.
You're trying to show them something.
But at the same time you want your Web site to stay open.
So what we would do is add a target attribute.
Now I'm going to show you a little another little trick here keyboard trick if you want to copy this
whole line down what you can do is hold shift option or shift all on on windows and then hit the down
arrow and that will just copy that line for you.
OK.
And another tip if you want to see how I'm just going back and forth here one character at a time if
you want to go by by word you can hold down Ault or actually on Windows it's control I believe.
But on a Mac it's option.
And if you hit the the over arrow.
Notice how it goes across the whole word.
OK.
So to go from here to here so you can go across much faster.
All right.
And if you want to go all the way to the beginning you can hit the home key if you want to go all the
way to the end of the line.
You can hit the end key.
So it's very helpful to be able to navigate very quickly like that.
So again like I was saying if we want to open in a different tag we can use the target attribute.
And for a value we want to do underscore blank.
OK.
So we'll save that.
And what I wanted to show you is notice how this the next link here is not on a separate line.
The reason for that is an on a tag is actually what's called an inline element.
So it doesn't knock it onto the next line like if it were a paragraph which is actually a block element
and we're going to talk about inline and block elements.
I think two videos from now.
But I wanted you to know that there are some inline elements and there are some block elements.
Now if I want this on a new line I could put a line break or I could just wrap them in a paragraph tag.
OK.
And another tip is if I want this moved up here I can actually just hold either all it on Windows or
option on a Mac.
And I can just bring it up I can move this line wherever I want.
All right.
So we'll do that and let's put another paragraph tag and we'll bring that up into here.
So now if I save there on separate lines because a paragraph is actually a block level element and if
I click the second one it opens up in a new tab because of the target attribute.
OK.
Because I set it to blank.
All right.
So these are external links usually your links are going to be internal because you're going to be linking
to other pages in your web site like let's say in about page or a services or contact page something
like that.
So since we have these each team all files in the same folder Let's link to one of these.
So we'll link to the 0 4 typography.
So we're going to close that back up.
Let's say internal link put a paragraph and we'll put a an h in a tag with an eight graph that points
to slash meaning the current folder that we're in.
And then with V.S. code.
Notice that it actually shows us the HCM him all files that are in this folder.
Ok.
The slash means the current folder we're in.
So going to choose the topography h t AML and in here let's just say topography and we'll go and save
that.
And then if we click topography it brings us to that page.
OK.
We don't have to put the whole like 1 2 7 0 0 1 fifty five under we don't have to put that in here because
we're already in the same folder.
So we just need that Slash.
All right.
We're just going to click the back button so we can link to any inner page that way.
So now let's take a look at images.
So this is our folder right here HCM all sandbox and I'm gonna just create a new folder here called
images.
Usually you'll see this or they might it might be called I Am G.
A lot of times you'll see that on Web sites and applications.
But in this images folder I'm just going to bring over a sample image which you should have in your
ear if you're HDMI sandbox in the project files.
And I'm going to bring this onto our Web page.
OK.
So I'll go down here and let's say local image I'm seeing local image because it's actually in our folder
it's in it's in our file structure you can also link to remote images that are elsewhere and I'll show
you that in a second but let's go ahead and do an image tag which is I am G and in V.S. mode if I do
I AMG enter a tab it's gonna give me two attributes.
One is the source which is the location of the image and the image name.
And then one is the basically the alternative tax.
So for some reason the image doesn't show up.
If it's not there or something.
This will be the text that's shown.
So for the altar I'll just say my image and then for the for the link here we want to go into the images
folder.
Notice with V.S. code if I do forward slash brings down this dropdown and I can choose the images folder
and it even shows me what's in there.
And the sample dot JPEG.
So I want that.
So the location and the image name itself.
So if I go ahead and save.
There it is.
The image shows up now.
It goes out of view here because we have no CSF.
So it's just going to show the full size image.
But with CSX we can actually change actually we can change with H team as well if I wanted to I could
add a width here.
This isn't really something I'd recommend doing usually you would use CSX but you can set the width
and height in HMO.
So if I set this to two hundred and save now I could see that it's smaller and you can do height the
height as well but the height will auto adjust if you add a width so we can also do remote images
so same way I am G.
And also just say my image too.
And for the source I could do any source I want.
Actually there's a really good image sharing site.
If you go to source dot on Splash dot com and we go down here you can get random images from a specific
user of the site.
What I want though is let's see there's a fixed date daily weekly photo so you could grab any of these
you are ls right here random search term so if you want a random image like of nature and water you
can just grab this you are all and put in nature and water.
So let's do that.
So if we go back if I save it's going to give me an image that sixteen hundred pixels by nine hundred
pixels of nature water let's make this smaller
say two hundred
OK so there we go.
And this only works because the UN splash dot com allows us to do this.
They they basically allow us to specify the size and hear this you can't do this with just any link
any image link.
Same thing with keywords here.
If I wanted like let's say building
and then we go get some kind of picture of a building.
I think it's right.
Yeah it's random so if I click reload it's just going to be a random building.
And again this has nothing to do with h t Amal it's just the UN splash service is an image sharing service
or an image place holder service that allows us to do this.
So it's free it's pretty cool if you're building something and you just need some some kind of random
image and you don't want to have it local.
You can just link to on splash like this.
All right.
So I think that's going to do it guys in the next video we're gonna start to look at lists and tables.